This is a reflection on the last years of my life.

No preface

The future past.

The future past has been at the center of my development into a person. There was a distinct point in time, a moment I can point to, when I was 10, that I discovered the future past. I have referred to this moment as the moment I "gained self-awareness", but that is perhaps inaccurate. By the time I was 5 years old, I had a good understanding of the concept of infinity. By the time I was 8 I understood that there was no obvious answer to why I experienced the world around me. I pondered death, not wanting it or being fascinated by it, but curious about the moments leading up to it. Interestingly, I was rarely curious about the afterlife. My parents, being comfortable with the idea "we become dust" or "we become energy and disperse into the universe, becoming one again", I never felt a compulsion to have some "answer" regarding what happens *after*. Before, however, was a different story. I realized my parents would not be there forever. When they would leave on business trips, drive to work, not answer a call, I would mentally prepare myself for the possibility they were gone for good. This implied beginning to cherish them, the time we'd spend together. I imagined a future where they weren't there anymore, and it was my antidote to the archetypal rebellion and distaste for parents common at my age - I avoided this by looking back on the present from a point in the distant future where they were no longer, making now a future memory and hugging them a little tighter, saying "I love you" one more time than one otherwise would. From this emerged the future past. What began as an acceptance of mortality, beginning with my parents, became a way of life that catapulted my development decades past my peers. This was not a development of the kind of late nights buried in books, doing math, building things - though I had my share of those later, in high school; this was a development of wisdom, laerning to imagine futures, use my god given human capacity for foresight to simulate lives hundreds of times over. I simulated the last seconds of my life so many times, what I would think and feel and say in my final moments, unobserved, no evidence to remain of those thoughts the way this writing bears witness to some of my time on earth. The future past unlocked exponential growth. It unlocked living more life that I should have been able to by 10 years old. So, at 10, like the big bang a universe sprung within me, into existence. I learned wisdom reserved for the end of days at the start of days, and this wisdom, though I don't understand how, shone through and was noticed by many, mainly adults. I was consistently singled out as an "old soul", "wise beyond your years". I became a passionate lover of life, of time. I learned to cherish every moment, every second. I began thinking more about consciousness and tried writing about my observations. Though I do not know if it was innate or learned, I had a remarkable ability to look within my mind and step through how my mind works - like how a trained ear can dissect, pick apart notes played by a band in real time, I could slow down and step through many layers of my own cognition. Would this take me into philosophy? Artificial Intelligence? Neuroscience? None? Art? The world was open to me.  
